Is the hijab 10 discount code for 10%
discount on a wide range of products
including premium Ethiopian black seed
products.
As-salamu alaykum wa rahmatullahi wa
barakatuh and welcome to the MH podcast.
This is the 10th episode and I'm joined
with two very very special guests.
To the far right we have Dilly Hussain.
The chief vice president or is it the
chief editor? I think it's a big title.
Deputy editor. Deputy editor of five
pillars.
And in the middle is the one and only
the youth dawah king.
He's standing behind the camera.
Ali Dawah, how are you? Yeah, I'm happy.
I'm actually really happy. You okay?
Sorry. I think I think I think it's our
first video in
maybe
maybe a year. Really? Yeah, I think I
think We do a lot of videos. I'm sure.
Don't talk over me when I'm speaking.
Yeah, I'm good. It's good. I'm really
I'm I'm actually really happy to be cuz
I haven't seen Dilly. Last time I saw
you I was
It's been a while. I dropped the I
dropped the customer. Ramadan. Yeah, and
then and gave me nice food. Really nice.
Especially heart to heart.
Yeah, indeed. Last time I saw you was at
the park. Yes. So we were seeing
And just to clarify when you said far
right it's not telling of my political
perspective.
But we are going to be speaking about
politics and we are going to be speaking
about the political spectrum.
We are indeed. So let's dive straight
into the discussion Dilly and
Obviously there's a lot of controversy
in Muslim dawah circles now. Um
particularly because of this this
question of activism. Yeah. And I think
it's fair to say that in Muslim circles
the UK approach is a little bit
different to the US approach.
Yeah. Can you outline what you see as
the main differences between the two?
Bismillah rahman rahhim alhamdulillah wa
salat wa salam ala rasulillah.
Basically well this is such a vast
topic, right? But it goes without saying
and all the du'at and Islamic activists
who've been in the scene since the '90s
even '80s know that the UK
is the hub of Islamic activism and
dawah. So now you're going to go into
patriotism?
No, no, no, it's not.
The
the the the least we want is going to
asabiyyah over over over dawah, yeah?
But the point here is the UK has always
been the hub and the central point of
various Islamic movements and groups.
And there's various reasons as to why
the activism and the dawah and by the
way the reason why I use the two
together is because I don't I think in
from an Islamic standpoint these two are
interchangeable.
Dawah is activism. Activism is dawah. I
think they're they're intertwined. And
the reason why that is is because the
community the Muslim communities in the
UK are are more established. They've
been here much longer.
And their relationship with the
establishment is
more well thought out. You understand?
Whereas in the US and North America
broadly speaking it's a newer diaspora
community with exception to the African
American Muslims who were the first
Muslims from the time of slavery.
And in the last 10, 15, 20 years there's
been various challenges. Various. Whilst
we've got wars, oppression, and
occupation in the Muslim world in the
West we've got things like counter
extremism violence laws, CVE laws,
Islamophobia,
a massive well funded reformist agenda
to change aspects of normative Islam,
and a huge push to normalize pro LGBT
values and lifestyle within the Muslim
communities, right?
And here you find of late at least that
there is a distinct difference between
how Muslim du'at and activism groups in
the UK have dealt with these challenges
and how it's been dealt with in North
America.
Muslim Muslims I mean UK Muslims yeah UK
du'at. Yeah, all right, all right. So
cuz you're going to say they're Muslim
and these ones are No, no, they're
they're Muslims as well. I think that's
Things haven't got that bad yet.
They haven't got that bad yet. But but
just to just wrap up on this point here
is that the challenges are pretty much
the same. They might be at different
levels and whilst we're not we're not
making sweeping generalizations there's
glaringly obvious trends in which the
way the Brits
have dealt with these similar issues and
the way the Americans have. And we can
touch upon this later on inshallah.
Before we do that speaking to really you
can call yourself an activist
after the kind of work you've done with
the far right especially in the day of
freedom a march of freedom.
Do you remember that day?
Yeah, we do. Yeah, we saw how you got
punched up
like a like a like a
like a little boy.
You know, while I was chased at the
other side.
Fighting for my life.
And while while while you was using
pictures of police surrounding you on
your WhatsApp profile picture
you know
But you remember the time when he RAN
AWAY, RIGHT?
WHEN I WAS DEALING WITH ALL THE THE BIG
BOYS.
YEAH, AND THAT'S WHY I tore my legs.
So so what we what are some of the
challenges you've you've dealt with in
in UK activism?
Yeah. So basically well with me it's
obviously it's been like the absolute
far right and also like non-Muslims like
Martin Luther Watts as well
which I've called in. You know, let's
need to make that clear. Um and yeah, I
did You know, you know, I I personally I
don't I didn't believe that I was the
right person to do it but I saw no one
else doing it. And I felt very like I
was I was looking and seeing like the
Britain First picking on Muslims who are
walking like miskeen like
they don't know much and being picked on
and bullied and you're seeing Tommy
Robinson insulting the prophet over and
over again. It just really like
infuriated me, you know? And that's why
I know like I think if I'm mistaken like
you had some criticism
of me doing that bit. Like I was it was
coming from a good place. Do you know
what I'm trying to say? Yeah, probably
feedback exactly. So with me it was like
I explained it to everybody like this is
how I feel, you know? I'm seeing this
happen in front of my eyes and not many
people are doing anything. I'm not
saying there's people more qualified to
doing but me I'm a more hands-on guy,
yeah? Like I'm I'm just like that. Do
you get what I'm saying? I don't care.
And in six months I was tracking Tommy
Robinson, man. I was I was tracking
where his flights are coming. I was in
Luton Airport waiting for him once and
he he ended up going to I think Stansted
or something. So I wanted them to feel
the the fear in their heart.
I want I wanted them to know that that
we're on their case, you know? And I
dealt with them and you know, like
there's lessons that I've learned
through it. Alhamdulillah. But all in
all inshallah it's it's it broadened the
spectrum in the context of there was a
lot of people in the far right who come
and be like okay, you know what? You
change your mind about this or etc, you
know? So it was good. But yeah, like you
know, I did and alhamdulillah I do like
I don't have absolute regrets but
there's things I could have done better,
things I could have learned. But all in
all inshallah it was a benefit and may
Allah accept it. I mean I think it's
important to also add that you know,
activism is such a broad spectrum.
There's so many things. People think
it's just a protest. It's not. It's
confronting Islamophobes and anti-Muslim
bigots. It's lobbying various MPs or
think tanks. It's dealing with even the
opponents of Islam or Muslims on a
grassroots level to those in the
echelons of power. Remember you you
Remember you said to me Henry Jackson's
no one. Douglas is no one. And I said
but hijab their followers and their
views might not be many but they're the
ones that get in the laws through
government. So Muslims in different
aspects of their professions they are
dealing and doing activism whether
knowingly or unknowingly with different
parts of our many challenges, yeah? It's
not just protest. There's so many
things. There's lobbying. There's
there's court cases. What the our
enemies now call lawfare. The Muslims
are now engaged in lawfare, right? So
activism is such a broad spectrum and
everyone's got a part to play in it. You
guys have a huge role to play in it in
the realm of YouTube and online no one
You're right. No one else is really
doing it. If there wasn't Hijab and Ali
wallahi I've I've I've never said this
on camera before but if you two and
others weren't there who would keep the
likes of you know, I don't want to
mention any names in check? We're not.
And how are you guys going to keep the
likes of Douglas Murray and the
Institute of Strategic Dialogue and
these kind of people in check? So we
need everyone in every level to be
dealing with this.
I do feel like do you know, there are
some people who have never responded to
me like
I've done a video on Ben Shapiro for
example. But I know that they're acutely
aware of those videos. And I know many
of them are not speaking about Islam cuz
they know that it would be
um
a perfect opportunity for people like me
to just be on their case.
And it's the same thing with you Ali. I
know that there are many people that
would be coming out of the woodwork now
if we didn't use what you could call a
confrontational approach.
But talking about different approaches I
think the confrontational approach is
something we have used and we feel like
it's been successful. I want to mention
one thing that on a law level on
legislation level that was quite big in
the news which is last year 2019
with the RSE bill.
Yes. And the protest that were taking
place in in Birmingham. Namely and
elsewhere in the north and Midlands but
namely Birmingham. Yeah.
How would you gauge the success of these
Muslim protests outside of schools to
try and stop sex education and all
LGBT learning going on which halted
learning of all these lessons in
particular for a very long time and
prompted a national conversation which
you actually part of, weren't you? Yeah,
I was. I was indeed. Um With Piers
Morgan as well. It was yes. The Khabib
So so the relationship and sex education
bill was passed last March. Yeah. And it
came to effect this month. So that means
in in primary and secondary schools in
England
it is compulsory now or responsibility
for them to now teach same sex
relationship and and and curriculums
that basically kind of normalize these
things. I mean my brother Usuf Patel who
who's in involved in all this.
I'm going to talk to him. He called and
contacted me. I'm going to do a not
podcast but interview with him because
he I did one with a Christian guy and he
said there was some things that are not
actually true. So he contacted me and
you can keep an eye out for that. So so
so so what basically happens that around
a couple of hundred Muslim parents in
Birmingham when they got a whiff of
what's being taught without consultation
Yes.
Um they withdrew their children from
going to school and they protested
peacefully within the framework of the
law outside the school basically saying
that you cannot be teaching our children
these kind of things that you know,
Imran can come into school and identify
as Amina and Amina can come to school
identify as Abdullah. These things are
not going to happen.
Um that you can absolutely be gay and
Muslim. Meaning they're teaching these
things not from a morally neutral point
of view. Absolutely. Yeah. And there's
this kind of a straw man where people
say oh well, we teach religious studies
cuz religious studies is taught from a
morally neutral point of view."
That's right. Whereas this was not. But
the the greater point here is that
Muslim parents deemed it
worrying and alarming enough to protest
peacefully and withdraw their children.
And that sparked a national discussion
from the government to
you know, the main TV shows and news
channels and everything.
And they were labeled homophobic,
fundamentalist, extremist, intolerant.
But that did not stop them. And you know
what else though? I want to add. I was
just looking at some of those videos and
they're they're freely available on the
internet now like
on Sky News YouTube channel. I was
looking at the comments underneath and
actually there was a lot of people
in support of Muslims from the Christian
community. Well, I um And from other
communities
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
After my showdown from with Piers
Morgan, I had overwhelming support
Which you can see online.
Yes, you can. Yeah, on GMB. And and by
the way, they cut 6 minutes from that.
They didn't upload the full thing.
Um the overwhelming support from
Christians especially who said, "Our
leaders no longer have a back my
backbone." Mhm. Right, we are a
spineless community. Many Christians
conveyed this to me that we have already
succumbed to this centuries ago. You
understand? Whereas you guys are
representing, you're making us proud,
our Abrahamic brethren, etc. You know,
there was there was a lot of support
from the Jewish communities. I think
that was one of the most commented
things. So so so you know, but the point
to take away from this is that the
parents were resilient. Yeah. They did
not buckle under pressure. They were
labeled
Was it just the parents or was it the
ulama as well? No, no, oh, yeah, of
course. Of course. They had a lot of
scholarly support. Alhamdulillah, there
was 120 ulama who signed a a signed
statement which you can see in Five
Pillars and and it's been published
elsewhere where they where they
criticized the RSE bill from a legal and
a moral point of view.
And just to add to that, 7 years ago
when the same-sex marriage bill went
through in 2013, 500 ulama
Sunni and even Shia, right? Salafi,
Barelvi, Deobandi, Ikhwani, you name it,
all groups. 500 scholars issued a
statement saying that we are against the
same-sex marriage bill. The bill still
went through, but a statement and a
stance and a precedent was set that this
is not something that we're willing to
accept wholeheartedly and you're not
going to get the full support of the
community, especially not from the
religious figures.
And when you compare that now to the US
where their freedom of speech laws are
far more laxed. Exactly.
You can get away with saying a lot more
and doing a lot more.
And there's a far stronger Christian
conservative constituency in the US. So
sometimes when we see things in the US,
right? I think to say this agib, we've
got tighter freedom of expression laws
here and free speech laws. Our hate
speech laws are very, very tight. In
America you can get away with saying a
lot as well as packing guns as well.
Let's remember this is a cowboy country.
The Muslims could strategically if they
wanted to
could look at alternative alliances in
terms of fulfilling single issue stuff
like the RSE bill and you know, LGBT
issues. But as we're going to discuss
later on, this whole kind of blind
allegiance to the left, the progressive
left is dangerous and we're already
starting to see the rotten fruits of it.
And talking about this, let's talk about
that. I think
case study one we should talk about
is a prominent figure
in America called Linda Sarsour. Yes.
Who I think is a Palestinian nationalist
she at least has
Palestinian allegiances which of course
is a very good thing. She believes in
rights for the Palestinians, etc.
But what I've understood from her from
her rhetoric really is that she's
totally subsumed
into this ideology of the left, totally
absorbed into it. And categorically,
almost unreservedly, right? talks about
you know, giving LGBT rights. But not
only that, it seems like and this needs
to be corrected and asked. I mean, this
is a point of a question here.
Is she morally in favor of this
behavior? In other words, does she deem
it as morally acceptable? This is a
question I still don't know what the
answer to to force same-sex behavior
between two people.
And also on abortion.
And what I find really, to be honest
with you, disturbing is that the
acquiescence of the the clerics in
America to this and even
to some degree the support of some of
these clerics.
On what basis
is that justifiable in Islam? On what
basis is this okay?
And what benefit is this giving us as
the Muslim community in in the US?
I need you to touch on that before I lay
some smackdowns.
I think you should go with the
smackdown, man.
So look, for those of you who don't know
who sister Linda Sarsour is, she's an
American Palestinian activist from
Brooklyn, from New York, very prominent.
Came into huge prominence, I think, a
couple of years ago in the Million
Women's March outside Washington, D.C.
when you know, against Trump and some of
the comments he made against women, etc.
Right. Um and there's various interviews
and statements of hers where she's you
know, conveyed clear un-Islamic
positions. Yani kufri. I mean, this is
without shadow of a doubt. But they were
not calling her a kafir. All we're
saying is that the statements she has
made is without a shadow of a doubt goes
beyond the consensus of the
ones? Like for example, Yeah, like what?
Like so so so from my I'll be honest
with you, I don't know. Okay, I don't
really know her. So you guys tell me
about her. I don't know. Okay, so from
my understanding, I believe she's of the
position of unrestricted right of women
to abort as and when they wish. All
right. Let me read out exactly what she
says.
In minute 10 Okay, make sure it's the
the minute
minute 10 second five, right? In her
interview when she was actually with
Yasser Qadhi and Mehdi Hasan.
And she says gay rights and Islamic
rights are part of the same struggle.
She agreed to this point. So this I want
to understand from her. Does she mean to
say that
she believes that gay rights or that
homosexual behavior
on a fundamental level is
is okay.
Um I think what she's saying here and
this is a very common strand of thinking
within the left, the progressive left is
intersectionality and it or
intersectional politics which is
basically there are certain oppressed
groups and discriminate groups in
society. So it's usually class.
Obviously its roots is it within
Marxism. So it's class, gender,
sexuality, yeah? Now race. To say that
all these kind of different groups are
all within a part of a greater struggle
against the establishment. And therefore
Islamic rights or that the rights of the
Muslim community is on par with the LGBT
rights because we're both discriminated
communities. So it makes from a maslaha
point of view strategically wise to ally
with the LGBT and even Black Lives
Matter and others, right? Because we are
all discriminated minorities.
just come in on this because I've
actually written a book on
intersectionality. It's called Fifth
Wave Feminism.
Masha Allah. That's right. And
this book is available
for you to buy. And actually what this
book was is a collection of maybe five
or six essays that I had done when I was
in the gender studies department in
SOAS.
And they all got distinctions actually,
high level distinctions. So no one's
said
No, no, just in case ANYONE SAYS WHAT DO
I WHAT DO WE what do we know men talking
about intersectional stuff. So
anyway, look, this this term was I think
first introduced by Kimberlé Crenshaw,
right? In maybe the '80s or the '90s,
right? And like you've just said, so
women women in feminism, it doesn't have
to be women because obviously trans
theory comes into it and this is part of
the the wider kind of queer theory have
different identifiers. So it's not just
not she's not just a woman, she's a
woman. She's a black woman. She's you
know, she could working class. So class
gets in there. The problem here that I
have with this is that the
hierarchization of these identifiers is
usually left to Western people. So in
other words, why is it that womanhood,
number one, is more important than for
example, let's say for the sake of
argument, tribe. Because if you go to
Africa, right? A woman's tribe might be
more important to her than her quote
unquote gender. Obviously the word
gender is extremely fluid in these in
these discourses, right?
And the same thing might be said with
religion, right? But what I'm arguing is
if we have a community of women
who may, I'm not saying will or do,
right? May identify firstly as being
religious and then after that
as anything else. So the hierarchization
is left to her, right?
From an intersectional perspective, and
this is the argument I'm making in the
book, right? From an intersectional
perspective, it's not that Islam should
be subordinate in that sense to
intersectional feminist thought. It's in
fact intersectional feminist thought
which has to take on board the full
nature of the Islamic character of such
person.
Not like one shoe fits all. No, what I'm
saying is this is that if the we can use
the intersectional if the intersectional
approach is used with a community like
the Muslim community for example and
they decide to hierarchize their own
identifiers such that religion becomes
prioritized which they should be if if
of course autonomy is afforded to them
and from a feminist perspective, that
should be the case. If they if they
prioritize their religious character
then that would suggest that at least
that
Islam or let's say the religious
character, whatever it may be that they
believe in, even conservative Islam,
even ideas by the way which might be
which might be um
patriarchal in second wave senses. Cuz
remember, this whole intersectional
thing is moving on to third wave
feminism now. It's no longer second
wave. It's no longer the patriarchal
societies. We've gone way deeper into
the the discourse than that. So what
what I'm saying is really if we are to
use an intersectional
intersectional approach on an
intellectual level, what we can actually
establish is
women
who are Muslim or people that are
Muslim, it doesn't have to be women
necessarily because of course gender is
not necessarily confined to womenness or
femininity if at all it's anything like
that. If if they exist on this on this
paradigm.
Um
Once again, if they if they identify
firstly as Muslim, that should be
the thing. So why don't we argue using
the intersectionist approach that we
should be you should allow us like for
example They epistemologically they
can't allow that. You know this. No no
but here's what I'm saying. Look,
there has been a bias in favor of what
what we call Western or colonial
feminism, right? White women Or even
privileged women that are not white.
Exactly. And
that is a sort of privilege. Just like
me and you are privileged, right? On
this discourse. Yeah. And
why can they call the shots? Yeah. Like
for example, if we really did a
referendum on the Muslim community, how
much do you percent do you think will
agree with her stances on LGBT?
How representative is she really of the
Muslim community?
She Her stances are basically not
representative of the of the Muslim
community in the US or the UK or any
part of the West.
So so let's just So let's go over some
of these positions. So so so so her
position on abortion. Yes. So she has a
position on obviously same-sex
relationships, right? So so so and
there's from my understanding there's
also some concern with regards to her
views on Muslim women having non-Muslim
husbands and partners, right? Really?
Yeah, so so so so there's a plethora of
issues pertaining to Linda's
positions and and we shouldn't be
surprised. And and and for the last 5-10
minutes where
Hijab spoke very academically and you
know, if you got a bit lost, what we're
essentially saying here is that Linda
has subscribed to a framework of
activism
and an ideological basis which is
un-Islamic. Let's be frank about it, you
right? And its roots is within Marxism.
And Marx had no space for religion. Mhm.
Religion was an oppressive factor on
society, do you understand? Against the
proletariat and the bourgeoisie,
religion was just an opium, you know,
yeah? So in that case, we have to
understand that Linda has subscribed and
many others by the way. And even in the
UK, we have Mayor Sadiq Khan, we have
Salma Yaqoob who's who's far less
prominent. But we have similar
individuals but just not as prominent as
Linda who's made huge waves.
And this position which she espouses are
clearly un-Islamic. And if she carries
on trying to justify and if she gets the
support from ulama and institutes who
come across as traditional mainstream
and normative, this is a very very
dangerous thing which we need to And
this is the problem. And and that has
happened with like
Yasir Qadhi called I don't know what was
the actual word used but praising her.
So this and
let's not get into the Yasir Qadhi issue
but if he is someone that people see in
American Muslim
an authority, if he's praising her,
then what what do we do from that moment
onwards? I don't understand. Yeah, this
this this is a point of tension cuz I
had this conversation with Yasir Qadhi
face to face. Can I just say something
in defense of Yasir Qadhi, yeah? So so
Yasir Qadhi when when when Linda came
down for men's national
anti-Islamophobia conference kind of
thing, right? There was this kind of
very open discussion between Yasir Qadhi
and Linda Sarsour because a lot of
Muslims in the UK raised concerns to
men.
public? Yes, you can see it. It should
be on men's YouTube channel, yeah?
And and Yasir put a bit of heat on her.
He pressured her a little bit on on
pressed on some of her positions. She
got you know, a bit on the back foot cuz
it wasn't like Mehdi Hasan who's on her
side, right? This was more of a kind of
neutral Islamic platform, yeah? So it's
there and so in Yasir Qadhi's defense,
he did at times has pushed her on her
positions but they have a maslaha
calculus and that is why would we call
out Linda Sarsour and Dalia Mogahed and
others, you right? Who's another
individual. Yeah. Um why would we call
them out when number one, the far right,
the right wing, the kufar, the
disbelievers and those who are actual
open enemies of Islam and Muslims are
attacking these very same people and
they have the same justification for
Ilhan Omar etc. and Rashida Tlaib. But
the point is where do we draw the line?
Well I was just about to say that.
Where do we draw the line?
Where do we draw the line? That's the
question that I think today's topic It's
the right wing. It's not just it's not
just open enemies of Islam. The left
wing are also No no no, what I'm saying
is that not all of them are enemies of
Islam and likewise, people on the left
are sometimes enemies of Islam.
Basically And also they are sometimes
wolves in sheep's Which one is Which one
do you Okay, let's be honest. Which one
do you think is worse? The far right or
the far left? It's very difficult to
make Number one second, I believe the
far right
not to be general here, want to kill the
body in the context. And the far left
looks like they want to kill the soul.
Because if we're talking about LGBT,
the far right will get out of my
country, I don't want you here, I want
you dead. The LGBT the far left, what
they're doing is they're not coming
they're saying no, we don't want to we
love you.
But internally they're destroying you.
Yea to us as Muslims, is our body more
important or the soul? So I believe the
far left are a greater danger than the
far right coming
interesting. What you're saying is that
It's yeah. the the the rhetoric of the
far right is is more interested in
removing our physical bodies,
immigration and I prefer I prefer an
enemy that
And and the left is is more theological
or ideological
values And then as human beings, we live
in a materialistic world where
everything's aesthetic. So when we see
someone saying we love you, wow, you
love me. Okay. And then our guards drop
down. Now when we go to the far right,
when I see the far right in a
confrontation, I know what they're
about. I know what I expect and I know
what I'm going to give, yeah? So with
the far left, they're I love you and you
feel a bit like okay, you know, maybe
let me be a bit I think the question is
where do we draw the line and where do
you think our American Muslim brothers
and sisters are
making a mistake? Hijab, before we go
into the specifics of Sarsour and
American activism, it's important to
state that brothers and sisters, Islam
is neither right or left. It is
the middle path, right? You will find
commonalities in the left and socialism,
you'll find commonalities in the right
when it comes to family, traditional
values, law and order. There you'll find
it with economy, fiscal policies etc.
etc.
Yes. But the point here is when we've
looked at successive governments in the
West in the West, namely the UK and the
US, right? Both the left and the right
have killed Islam have killed Muslims
and maligned Islam.
Yes. Obama had the most drone strikes,
right? During his tenure as president
than any than Donald Trump. Obama was
the one that introduced the travel ban.
Trump only added two or three more
countries How many did you know? How
many of you guys know Tony Blair was
center-left. This man was a socialist,
right? China is a communist country.
Russia is
a follower of
Now I wouldn't say Tony Blair was a
socialist. No no no no but the point I'm
going to make is we should get this out
of this caricaturing that the right are
our enemies and the left are our allies.
But I appreciate that there is a growing
trend of Muslim academics who are doing
decolonial studies, who are doing
sociology and all various other studies
in universities and what they have said
to me
is that Muslim academics and activists
find the left as a safe space to
articulate our grievances. Yeah. We
don't find that space in the right. We
find the space within the left because
since they're already criticizing
colonialism within a particular
restricted framework, I must add as
well. It's not an unadulterated critique
of European colonialism, right? But
there's a space there where Muslims can
criticize counter-extremism laws,
foreign policy, Islamophobia etc. etc.
And I think that is why there is a
natural gravitation towards the left.
is as as Ali's just kind of alluded to
right now, when you get sucked into this
and then they say to you well, okay,
we'll we'll be your friends so on and so
on but then you have to kind of inherit
our ideologies, right? So you but now
you have to believe in what we believe
in what when it comes to gay marriage,
when it comes to homosexual behavior,
when it comes to whatever it is you
abortion and so on and so forth. And all
of these things are
completely against Islam.
Uh when it comes to Linda Sarsour
herself, to be honest with you, I was I
was looking at some of the videos that
she's put up online, okay? And um
what I've
noticed is actually she's quite a
provocateur. Now I've I've seen her
speaking to
uh you know, with with strong left-wing
rhetoric. And I think this actually
causes a backlash
in the sense that there's some people on
the center-right, maybe not exactly far
right,
that would come back and probably say
something like well,
why So we hate you for two reasons now.
You're a Muslim and you're left-wing.
And you're giving people additional
reasons to hate you, right?
Where you don't need to inherit these
belief systems.
I I think the beautiful thing about
Islam is like what you like you've just
said, it's
it's all inclusive and it's it's not
left or right.
And so going and allying with the left
and inheriting these things is is going
to cause problems. I think I think
Sarsour is going to be watching this.
And I just we need to formulate certain
questions to ask her and I think that
she owes it to the Muslim community at
this stage to answer these questions.
And the first question is do you believe
it's morally accept homosexual behavior,
anything from
um kiss on the cheek to
full fully fledged penetrative sex
between man and man for example.
Do you believe that this is morally
acceptable?
That's A.
B, do you believe abortion is morally
acceptable after four months? Like let's
say a six-month-old
uh child in the mother's womb. Do you
think that's morally acceptable? Number
three, do you believe that a woman
a Muslim woman can marry a for example
Christian or atheist man. Do you think
that's a morally acceptable position?
You believe that that is morally
acceptable, yes or no? These questions
are all yes or no questions. We we want
to know so that we can position you or
so we can make a judgment upon you as a
public person um in the Muslim community
cuz the truth of the matter is and did
we should mention this as well
is that she was rejected by the
Democratic Party, isn't it? Yes, so by
the Biden campaign just I believe it was
last month. They literally dropped out
at the drop of a hat. Literally that she
was she was at a
Biden campaign
event, I believe and some journalists
noticed her and as soon as they raised
concerns with the election campaign team
of Biden, they literally dropped her and
distanced herself distanced themselves
from Linda Sarsour like unequivocally.
What was she doing there? No, she I
think she was there just delivering a um
a speech to to kind of
rally and and organize Arab Muslim
voters for the Biden campaign cuz
obviously we got elections coming up
next month. And as soon as they
identified Linda, who is generally known
as you know progressive progressive but
what's what's Sanders name? What's the
guy's name? I forgot the guy's name.
Bernie Sanders, yeah.
She's generally known as that kind of
left of the Democrat party. Whereas
Biden is like center left. This guy is
also neoliberal. You know what I mean?
So as soon as they clocked Linda
Sarsour, they dropped her because you
know we you know she has nothing to do
with this campaign. This is all to do
with her position on Palestine and stuff
like this.
humiliation.
Huge humiliation. And this reminds me of
Hadith.
Uh actually there's a there's a
beautiful Hadith where the Prophet
Muhammad said
that if you do something
for the pleasure of the people and that
that causes the displeasure of Allah,
then Allah will basically leave you to
the people. In other words,
Neither will the people be happy with
you neither will Allah.
So I I and and this is the reality of
the situation. The truth is when you're
when you're grounded in Islamic
principles, right? As I'm sure you've
both kind of experienced with your
respective activisms.
When you're grounded with Islamic
principles, well no matter what happens,
you know that actually this is the
theological position that makes most
sense in my religion. So whatever
happens to me, I'm sticking by what I
know is true.
Exactly. You know you know you ask
question to sister Linda, yeah? Yeah.
The question before she answers, I think
she needs there has to be a point of
reflection. She needs to say okay
instead of what some people when you ask
a question okay I need to answer this.
Before answer that, are you answering it
from yourself or from the Quran and
Sunnah? It's very important because if
it's coming from you, sister this is
something this is the deen of Allah. So
if you're going to answer these
questions of abortion, LGBTQ and all the
other things and you're coming from your
perspective and you you think what you
think is right, this is very problematic
akhi because
if there's no basis like if she says
that she said it with the interview with
Mehdi Hasan she's not a scholar.
So how could you make statements akhi
where it's the deen of Allah in such
magnitude with confidence? I would say
before answering this question she
really needs to ponder upon if this is
coming from an area of knowledge and if
it's not, one needs to be really careful
to what they're saying. And really I do
think once again to press this point
that those three questions in particular
where the guidelines in Islam are
absolutely categorical,
we do need as a Muslim community, yeah?
Cuz you're a public figure. I'm sure
many people your constituents in the US,
your fans or your friends or whoever you
want to call them,
we need an answer to these three
questions. To repeat one more time, the
three questions are do you believe that
same-sex behavior homosexual behavior is
morally acceptable? Whether a Muslim is
doing it or a non-Muslim is doing it,
anybody is doing it. Is homosexual
behavior according to your worldview, is
that morally acceptable? Number two, do
you believe abortion in all
circumstances is morally acceptable? Do
you believe that?
Do you believe that abortion maybe a
5-month-old child or a 6-month-old
child, do you think that that is a
morally acceptable stance? Number three,
what was the third one? Uh
Muslim women marrying Muslim woman
marrying let's say an atheist or a
Christian. Do you believe that's
acceptable and is that morally okay in
your on your worldview? Is this okay?
Yes or no? And we need to know the
answers because truth is this woman
comes on television programs, she comes
on different interviews and she says my
people referencing the Muslims. Muslims,
if you survey them almost anywhere in
the world with these three questions,
the vast majority of Muslims would
answer in a very specific way to these
three questions anywhere in the world.
If you want to if you want to represent
the Muslim interest, you have to speak
the Muslim language. So so Linda Sarsour
another thing is you're welcome to come
to the podcast the MH podcast and we can
have a face-to-face discussion obviously
on Zoom or whatever. That'll be very
interesting.
And we can we can have a discussion on
these matters.
You're very much invited to this and I
believe that people all over the Western
world, Muslims and non-Muslims alike,
would like to hear you really answer
these questions. Because at the end of
the day people are accusing you of being
or speaking a forked tongue which
which is the point. Talking about this
Shall I just say something? Yes. I'll
I'll I'll keep it very short and brief
cuz someone will say well look you know
she's not here to defend herself and I
and I need to just play that little part
just so we're not sinful for this yeah?
there's there's no sin here. Yeah yeah
so
Look look no one's taking away Linda's
great work in in the in the field of
activism for Islamophobia,
counter-extremism laws, Palestine etc.
No one's taking this away from you. We
appreciate and acknowledge those good
things that you've done and and you've
got a long track record. But we want to
reiterate to the listeners, the viewers
and yourself that these things are not a
criteria for Islamic activism. These
things are not a furqan they're not
they're they're not a source or a basis
for for how we go about enjoying good
and forbidding evil, right? So these are
good things in and of themselves but
once you start dabbling and dipping your
feet in your case putting the putting
yourself entirely in it in propagating
these positions which are unequivocally
haram and kufri, then you will be called
out.
Exactly and and I think Abdullah ibn
Mas'ud
radiyallahu anhu may Allah have mercy on
him is that he said that how many people
intended good but they never got the
chance to achieve it. So we're not we're
not saying your intention we're not
coming and saying you're an infiltrator.
What we're saying is your intention
might be good and this goes to our next
topic of the whole
Ustadh Omar Suleiman's issue because
once again look and I'll I'll
dive straight into it yeah is that any
Muslim that does a certain act whether
it be me I never ever
we're talking about the issue of the
whole you know
Okay all right
the whole issue of you know brother
Daniel Haqiqatju what was brought up the
the the whole things of the ritual all
of that yeah? I want to make that from
the get I just want to make something
very clear yeah? Anytime I see any of
that behavior from any Muslim I
personally do not think this person is
intentionally committing a kufur. I
believe the intentions are there but in
an action in an action for to be
accepted as we know from the Quran and
Sunnah is that I can't say my intentions
are good let me go to a nightclub and
speak to some girls and give them dawah.
Yeah maybe I might receive dawah.
Why do you have to ask personal
questions?
I don't remember.
The thing is intentions are good but if
your actions are not according to the
Quran and Sunnah brother is it going to
be accepted? So the question is let's
get yeah. Yeah I I think this is a good
point to
to raise. Actually I'm not really
interested in that particular case study
in a vacuum. I'm interested it in it in
conjunction with our major question
which is activism in the UK and the US
because I think the bigger question here
is
when
Dr. Omar Suleiman of course who we have
love and respect who who's a Muslim and
who we we think good things of. We don't
we're not trying to cancel anybody,
right?
Same with brother Daniel Haqiqatju. I'll
be honest wallahi they are two believers
that we see as our Muslim brother. We
love all the believers and the Quran
instructs us this is very important
guys, you know? The Quran instructs us
to say
to be humble with the believers
you know and lower your wing to the
Yeah exactly not like the the S pubs.
Yeah so the No we have to be real yeah.
But but But I mean hijab in some time
I've forgotten how people just get taken
out. Yeah yeah yeah.
But having having having said that No a
long thing it's a wrong thing.
Look let's let's talk about this because
with with this in the UK we said that
we've we've had quite let's say a
confrontational approach sometimes with
the case study that you brought up with
the Birmingham incident which you said
has had traction and
was instigating national conversations.
This situation here was clearly the the
the the migrant protest was was being
spearheaded by
um
left-wing parties of which obviously the
LGBT community came came forward
Christian community um I think some Jews
were there. Yeah faith groups that are
left-leaning. Yes Jews and Christians
and all of that generally left-leaning
in the context yeah. So they all kind of
together and there were some really like
horrible things that we had to witness.
First first of them was the anointments
because this was clear in my appointment
in my understanding
disbelief. Okay so the the the sister
what was her name? I think it was sister
Linda Sarsour. So she is someone she is
not just an you know so this person who
was literally being she had a cross
being anointed on her head. Something of
that nature. No no no no I'm sorry right
I have to be educated here. As far as I
know I saw a LGBTQ whatever you want to
call it with a rainbow thing doing a
cross and then
I don't know the exact words. I don't
know Yeah it was an ointment. It was a
cross. But wasn't did the cross happen
with the
Yes yes yes.
Bro to me that was the like mind blowing
Was it just but hold on was it just her
or was it someone else?
No there was her and another guy if I'm
not mistaken. Linda Sarsour was there
another brother was there and it's also
important What's his name? I forgot the
brother's name. He was the head of CAIR
wasn't he? Yeah I think so. But but in
in a 10 yes yes so there was CAIR and
she was I believe she was ICNA but
please she was either ICNA or CAIR.
Linda Sarsour she's very prominent. We
also need to mention that Imam Zaid
Shakir from Zaytuna was present in this.
He was present but he wasn't doing this
right? It's it's an important
differentiate between who was present
and who was doing it.
It's also important to understand it in
the middle. With this with this
particular issue Yeah that if you've got
people of knowledge there that normally
can call and and not forbidding this
evil
whilst it's happening in front of him.
What's what's a greater activism than
the activism against shirk? Wallahi I
gave a speech I gave a lecture at UCL
last year it was entitled what is the
ideal Muslim activist and what we start
is the before we start thinking of um
the rights of the people it's the rights
of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala. Exactly.
That is the basis of our activism and
from that emanates everything.
Well do you know here's the point guys.
Look I'll be honest with you. I have to
be I've spoken to Yasser Qadhi about
this before and I had a whole kind of
podcast with him.
I Yeah we know about that. I know the
first one not the second one, right? I
had two podcasts with Yeah we know about
that too.
But with that we had this discussion,
right? And it's an important discussion
and we're trying to just kind of find
best practice here for Muslims because
not only are these kinds of protests
which are spearheaded by these LGBT
groups or left-leaning groups, whatever
you want to call them.
Um spearheaded by them and then Muslims
are
expected to come and kind of tag along.
Not only are they problematic from an
allegiance perspective, but they're
problematic practically.
I mean, look at what's happening. If
someone as
someone as religious, someone as
knowledgeable as Omar Suleiman
was pressured, let's be honest, he was
pressured enough not to kind of do inkar
as you've mentioned, not to negate this,
not to make a speech against this, which
quite frankly, if this guy would have
gone to Speakers' Corner, right? And
done this to Muslim people, this person
would have been laughed out the park.
So, what I'm saying is
if someone like him can be kind of
pressured to do things like this, yeah,
which are things quite frankly, which
are quite frightening, yeah?
Then imagine allowing a lay audience,
young people, 15, 16, 17, to go to these
environments where the lines are comp-
the theological lines are completely
blurred. My question is, on what basis
is the trade-off of a young Muslim
person being in that environment in any
way better than, you right? The benefit
that you can achieve from the activism
that's being done. I think blurred is an
understatement. Non-existent would be
more apt, right?
Uh you know, it is again, it is not
uncommon that you find left-leaning
progressive groups leading on these
issues. And you'll find that Muslims
generally have little to no say in terms
of the terms of engagement here.
And this is something again, it's a
discussion that's taking place in the
UK. It's a discussion that's taking
place in parts of Europe. But I think
what's happened in the US that they've
taken it to a different level. They've
taken it to a very different They've
taken it to a different level here.
Look, at the end of the day, as as
Muslims in the UK, brothers, we don't
hide that we have 16 to 17 practically
more or less useless MPs when it comes
to advocating or pushing for Muslim
rights, yeah? We know this. We know we
have a mayor in London who like Ilhan
Omar will dance and hold hands and and
get jiggy with it with LGBT people. We
know this. But the point we're trying to
make across here is
is the religious validation Yes.
or silence from people of knowledge.
That's right. May I say Sadiq Khan did
not did what he do with the support of
and imams and institutes, whether
indirectly or directly. And this is what
we're essentially addressing here.
Right. You know, look, I want to come
here from an angle, yeah? Like, you
know, Allah
tells us about
when he told them not to fish in the
Sabbath. You sound like you're going to
cry. WHAT'S GOING ON HERE?
I I I I I I DON'T KNOW WHAT I MEAN. MY
MY VOICE WENT DOWN a bit.
No, no. The in the Quran, Allah talks
about and he told them not to fish in
the Sabbath, yeah? And there was three
groups. The first group was the ones who
obeyed Allah.
The second group was the ones who didn't
and they were acting a bit, you know,
like, you know, clever thinking.
Yeah, we put Um and the third group was
the ones who were silent, yeah? The
scholars say that Allah
destroyed the ones who didn't obey and
the ones who were silent, yeah? So, it's
it's very important for us to understand
that when you're silent, you're a part
of that, yeah? But I want to make some-
I just want to come from a different
angle cuz me, like, I'll be honest, I
like to give the benefit of doubt to a
believer. Do you get it? So, believer
No, no, no, we have to. Look, you know
why? Look, and these are the dangers
like, for example, talking about our MP,
the mayor here, Ilhan Omar. Whenever you
get into these circles, you need to
understand, yeah? Is and we've been in
certain similar situations with the
Shia. They invited us in and so on. Yes,
exactly. It was very awkward in the
context of we went there because an
injustice happened. The person that's
running over these Shia brothers and
sisters, he didn't say, "Okay, is this a
Shia? Is this a Salafi?" He didn't. So,
the thing is, it's like in these
situations, it's very hard because you
know when you're you're trying to do
something for the sake of Allah and
you're joining hands together and
they're praising you and saying, "You
know, thank you for coming, man." etc.
etc. What happens is you end up trying
to please them unintentionally or you
feel awkward. So, for example, when I
saw I'm going to call him Ustadh cuz I
believe he's
Maybe older than Ustadh Omar Suleiman,
yeah?
I call him Ustadh out of respect. I just
I just want to say that.
So, the thing is, Ustadh is a title
Ustadh is a title that's being used
quite loosely these days. Okay, I I
yeah, exactly. So, so the thing is So,
the thing is here is just when he was,
for example, kind of two females females
came in like
Look, at the end of the day, there's two
extremes here. Like, I believe that
Well, that's different. I I I wouldn't
No, no, no, no, but I'm trying to make a
point here. So, I'm not saying this is
the issue. What I'm trying to say is you
can see that he is in an awkward
position and he doesn't want to Yeah. be
there. And you can see that by him
leaving and going. So, sometimes we have
to give benefit of doubt. It's important
to realize that he actually kind of
repented as well. Exactly. So, this is
what I'm saying, I'm He had a whole
statement on this.
Exactly. He made a repentance, yeah?
Now, I respect Daniel brother Daniel
Haqiqatju, yeah? Like, I don't agree
with certain stuff
Ustadh Omar Suleiman does and Daniel
Haqiqatju. But the point is sometimes
it's like in that situation, he clearly
said, "I didn't know this libation or
libation or whatever you want to call
it, yeah?" It It Whatever What he goes
in The woman was saying it's consecrated
water. No, no, I can I can I can I can I
can look That's what she knows. Look,
this Look, look, look
Look, look I said it before, I No, of
course, of
Maybe he didn't hear it. No, he might
not have heard. No, no, no, I I'm sorry,
I have to assume the best in the
context. If somebody's saying he didn't
know, and for me to be like, "Oh, that's
not good enough. Your repentance wasn't
good enough." etc. No, no, no, he just
said that the lady said it was
consecrated water. But he probably
didn't hear it.
Maybe, maybe. Cuz if somebody's saying
he's a believer, I can No, no, and also
like, they're just throwing it on the
floor. I don't know. Exactly, exactly.
Kind of explained it. Exactly, exactly.
So, the thing is, to me, where the red
line was drawn, and once again, it comes
back to that. Wallahi, it's and this
goes across board.
Um it's it's the
pleasing the people at the cost of Allah
like Allah.
And you see this over and over again.
You know, we do not understand the
rights of Allah.
How could you go in front of a priest
and he's doing a cross on your head?
Wallahi, no, no, no, no. Wallahi, I I
think to myself, if there was any line
that was crossed here because if
Omar Suleiman is saying that he didn't
know, he's publicly repenting, we can
see that he's moving away, yeah? We need
to make it and say, "You know what? He's
not comfortable. He probably regrets
it." One thing I would say is and say,
"Maybe you should have made this
repentance when this happened, yeah?
This not after two, three years,
But also, but in brother Daniel's
defense, initially when he raised some
concerns and some pictures, people
called him a liar.
And until the footage came out. Okay, I
didn't know that. Yeah, so, so, so he
released some photos first and you know,
many people called him a liar and you
know, and and and and then the footage
got released and then it then it was
just
Okay, I see. Now, now brother Daniel
Haqiqatju, look, he has a right. You
know what? I'll be honest, if I was even
in America and I saw this, wallahi, you
know, I'd say, "Grow a backbone."
Wallahi, it's sad. Wallahi, you look at
all these duas and wallahi, where is
your backbone? Okay, we've been in
certain situations. Women want to shake
our hands. We could have easily said,
"You know what? Yeah, let's do it."
Now, shaking the hands is No, no, I
know, I know, but we're saying Yeah, but
I can we're saying we don't even do Why
is it that when it comes to even shaking
hands, I can we're like, "Uh-uh. We're
not even going there, yeah? Why? Because
we know it's not going to stop there. My
hand? Give me a hug. Okay, hug. After
hug, God knows what else you're going to
flipping tell me to do. The thing is
this, then where do we draw the line?
So, we say prevention is better than
cure. And they are never going to be
happy with you. And Allah
Allah says this in the Quran and we know
from the hadith that if you compromise
this much, they're going to want more
and more and more. And this is what I
think I would, as a nobody, convey this
to the American duas out there that if
you compromise, wallahi, they're just
going to ask for more and more and more.
And look at the degree that And wallahi,
this is so disturbing. Like, imagine the
rights of Allah, yeah, shirk. And
somebody's there and you feel bad
because a priest is there and saying,
"Come, your turn to do the cross." And
you're thinking, "Oh, I don't want to I
don't I don't I don't No, no, one
second. I don't want to be rude." Can
you imagine? Who the hell are you, man?
I don't want to be rude. I would say,
"GET LOST." WALLAHI,
SUBHANALLAH, WALLAHI, WE'RE LAUGHING
ABOUT IT. IT'S A REALITY.
the point I want to make is the the
thamarah, the fruit that comes from all
of this is not to try and point the
finger at
Ustadh
Dr. Omar Suleiman. I'm not trying to
point the finger at him and say that
That's not It's It's fruitless for me to
do that. That's what He's already been
held to account and he's already come to
with his repentance, whatever. For me,
it's to show
the futility
and the weakness and the unsuccessful
nature
of this approach. This approach of
pandering to the left wing,
going to their protests, spearheaded by
them, it just yani, the Prophet said
the man is on the religion of his
friend.
When you allow Muslim youth to attend
places like this, right? Where there's
potential for shirk and kufr and free
mixing and for them to actually do ridda
by by believing in, you know, all those
things that we talked about,
homosexuality, etc. What you're doing is
you're
You're You're actually There's an
opportunity cost here. The opportunity
of cost of activism for Muslims versus
dawah for Islam. And I'm unfortunately,
you've chosen the activism over dawah.
And that's my concern. My concern is not
the individual person. The individual
person, him and Allah, he's going to be
just like all of us judged on the day of
judgment.
We're not talking about the individual
person. We're talking about the strategy
that's employed. I genuinely, totally
believe that it's a failed strategy. It
is a failed strategy. Compare it with
the UK strategy,
it's a completely failed strategy.
There's The UK strategy of Muslim
conservative, what you want to call
them, orthodox Muslims, whatever,
single issue and they make their
positions clear. Positions clear.
you know, at the end of the day, when it
comes to UK general election, most
Muslims will still generally vote
Labour. But they had there's certain red
lines that the ummah has here. Do you
understand? The RSE was one of those
issues. Circumcision was one of them
issues. Halal meat was one of those
issues. There's many The same-sex
marriage bill was an issue. Those 500
did not have to come out and write that
statement when the bill was already
going through. It was to make clear,
just to let you know, since you're
pushing this bill through, this is the
actual position of the community. Do you
understand? Now, with regards to
Now, our advice to, you know,
Islamic institutes, Muslim activists,
broadly speaking in the West, if you
believe from the consultation of your
scholars that, you know, attending these
protests and these kind of things is
permissible and there's a a genuine
sharia-based maslaha here, yeah?
At least take some caution and
precaution by telling Muslimin stay
away, stay segregated, don't embark on
these things. You know, even tell the
organizers. It's not even just like
that. It's it's worse than that. You
have to If you're If you're saying that
these things are happening, right? You
You You have to overcompensate
theologically for telling them that this
is kufur. This is shirk. This is
If you This is haram. You can't believe
in this. You have to You have to
overcompensate for this.
agree Do you agree that, for example,
that there can be some kind of working
together, but lines have to be drawn?
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah. You're not You're not saying
You're not You're not You're not saying
that you shouldn't do this from the
get-go. We're saying the foundations you
set up is flawed. Uh In the ideal world,
I believe that Muslims should lead
these. I mean, if if if we're talking
about success of civil rights movements,
right, in the '60s and '70s, and and
everyone will know this from history.
It was only when the blacks took their
own initiative. It was only when women,
let's say for the sake of argument or
the feminist movement, took their own
initiative.
Absolutely.
It's only when people from communities
have Look, we don't have objectives.
Like we we're not very clear.
The way this should be is that we're
coming up with very clear objectives,
just like they did in in Birmingham that
time. It was a good It was only 200
people, 300. Imagine what happens if we
get 5,000. Imagine what happens if we
get 5,000 people talking about, for
example, the Uyghur plight. I'll I'll
say it to you about that. If if there's
how many of you, even though it might be
a bit out of context, but still
Yeah, yeah.
No, but the idea is this. The idea is if
a single issue, it's a very clear
message, it's non-compromising of our
principles, Yes. this is this is
different from what Exactly. We've We've
seen it throughout history. The women's
emancipation movement in the UK, the
Indian independence movement, the
anti-apartheid movement, the black civil
rights movement, the Arab Spring or at
least what it began as. It was when
people took ownership on their terms to
change their circumstances, and not
jumping onto other people's bandwagons
where there will be ideological
compromise. In our case, you know,
clearly seeing a way
of shirk, you understand? Yes. Um
Sometimes it brings more harm. Of
course, absolutely. You know, with
certain things, you know. Uh
it's true. We have to be careful with
these things. But, the thing is Uh like
again, and one thing I want to touch
upon as well is very important because
sometimes, you know, when we're making
these comments and giving our opinions,
yeah? Personally, myself, I believe my
opinion
Yani, I can just give you If it's a
youngster watching you, I'm trying to
give the same to them, yeah?
Because Yaqeen Institute, like for
example, hamdulillah, like Sheikh Tahir
Wyatt, yeah? He's someone that I look up
to, yeah? Somebody who's there and who's
trying to move the organization,
inshallah, as far as I know, I'm
assuming the best, to the right
direction, yeah? And it's very important
for us to also not jump on the bandwagon
because we have some people who be like,
you know, well, I saw one brother in the
park. Subhanallah, they're saying um you
know, my my my teachers have got a
basira from Allah. Um and yeah,
you know, the teachers, yeah?
Unqualified teachers, yeah? And and and
and what is the thing? He goes, yeah,
they knew about Yasir Qadhi and they
knew about uh this guy and that guy.
It's like me doing tabdeel on 40 people
and two of them become a real tabdeel
and go, Allah gave me basira. What are
you talking about?
making tabdeel. No, no, no, exactly. No,
no, we're not, but the point here is
this, yeah? We need to know all this
because some people come and say, I
knew. See, I knew it. I warned about
this 5 years ago. Okay, what are you
talking about? Yani, we need to be
careful because otherwise, what happens
is we embarrass ourselves because we
don't have the knowledge and there are
people of knowledge on board like Sheikh
Tahir Wyatt, which is a person of
knowledge who's dedicated his life to
knowledge, hamdulillah, who's on board.
So, with this aspect, the only thing
that I want to touch upon is that
because I don't want to go into Yaqeen
Institute as an organization, etc.,
because if there's a person of knowledge
there, akhi, I'm a nobody to talk in
that context. You get what I'm trying to
say? And I want to give that due right
because as youngsters, sometimes we
cross our limits and be like, oh, no,
this is wrong. Why you not talking about
this, etc.? And what will happen is it
backfires and makes us look embarrassing
because what happened, this smear
campaign that happened against Sheikh
Haitham,
um and uh funnily enough, and from like,
you know, brother Imran, I'll be very
sure about it. I love him for the sake
of Allah, but this was an issue that was
done in public and needs to be addressed
in public. When Sheikh Brother Imran
Come on, man. Please. No, no, no. I
People won't know who you're talking
about. They know who I'm talking about,
yeah? Trust me, they know who I'm
talking about, yeah? You mean Imran
Hussein from IERA?
No, exactly. So, the thing is, what
happened is Sheikh Sheikh Sheikh Sheikh
No, no, no, no. Okay, he knows. I speak
to him, hamdulillah, and I'm going to
see him in 2 weeks' time as well,
inshallah. I'll in the public domain.
But, the issue is this. Sheikh Haitham
was thrown under the bus. He Smear
campaign happened, yeah? And guess what?
Sheikh Tahir Wyatt was used to
Justify. justify in the context of this
is a real scholar. He was praised in
such a level that this video was taken
down. Now, why? Because now Sheikh Tahir
Wyatt, may Allah bless him, inshallah,
is with Yaqeen Institute. So, sometimes
speaking without knowledge, it
backfires. So, there's a lot of people
jumping on the bandwagon and How if you
just say
he was on he wasn't on the right path
and he moved away?
Uh this is this is the argument that
could be made. Who was on the right
path?
By Wyatt? They They No, no, no, but this
is not This is the argument that's being
made, and we're saying you can't make
that. Like Nobody should jump on the
bandwagon and be like, you know, like I
knew it. I I knew this was coming, etc.
Please, if you don't if
Let's know our lane. Let's stick to I'm
I'm on the hard shoulder, and people
should stick to their lane and not come
out with I knew. See, I told I warned
you guys, etc. This is No, but I think
there's a point of refutation here,
which is if if you are willing to do the
refutation, I I will, you know, Anyone
can reserve the right to say, well, this
person's changed their views, therefore
I've changed mine about them, right?
But, the point of refutation, what
you've done a refutation about Haitham
Haddad, so why not do one about him as
well?
And then where will it Where will it
end, right? I I feel that we are
slightly digressing. Yeah, we did. But,
but, but, but let's just pull it back,
yeah? I know, as tempting as it is, I
love digressions, yeah? Look, we get
that siyasah is a huge gray area. So,
siyasah and and and generally the
politics and the affairs of of people is
a huge gray area, and we get, especially
in the last 80 to 100 years, with
historical and monumental changes in the
Muslim world and huge communities in the
West, that this issue of Muslim minority
survival in non-Muslim lands is a new
reality. And we get that there are many
scopes, many justifications, many
uh maxims which can be applied in terms
of our engagement in our activism. But,
I guess what we're trying to address in
this podcast is red lines. That's right.
And Not only red lines, And and and but
but but what enables What enables from a
theological point of view, where there's
ulama, institutes, enabling for those
red lines to either be blurred or
distorted or even become nonexistent.
So, there is a level of accountability
when we have individuals like Linda
Sarsour
uh in the US or others in the UK, but
most of the prominent ones are in the
US, that they have been praised by
scholars. They have been hosted by
Islamic institutions. They have been So,
so, so, so, these are these are huge red
because at the end of the day, if you
are going to present
the likes of Linda Sarsour and Ilhan
Omar and Rashida Tlaib Salma Yaqoob here
or Messody Khan as you as your role
models for your children,
know that when they grow up, that they
can adopt these positions and say, well,
you praised them when we were young.
You made us see their posters and their
videos and their lectures and their
talks when we were young. So, we too now
adopt these things. Do you understand?
So, it's it's a very dangerous thing
that needs to be nipped in the bud right
now because
dangerous things are ahead for our
youth.
I I think what it is is that we're
talking about balances, right? On one
side of the spectrum, you have people
who Yeah. blurring the lines or getting
rid of them. And And the other side of
And this is we're realizing the
untenable nature of this, how
how much of a failure this is actually,
and how much of an embarrassment it
becomes.
Um We saw this, by the way, in Egypt
with the Salafi movement and
Yeah, and and how, by the way, this is
brotherly advice. Like, honestly, if you
look at history or the recent history,
right, with with political dawah
movements that became political,
and then they engaged in activism. They
got on the wrong side of the political
spectrum, and then basically their dawah
became
uh null or almost zero.
example was crazy. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, a
lot of it. No, but but this example here
of of of of a group I'm not trying to
mention the politics here, but what I am
talking about is the dawah aspect. The
dawah fizzled away. The You know, those
people Just look at Just do a Google
Trends search on Amr Khaled.
Amr Khaled is probably the most
He was actually one of the most searched
people in on the internet in the Arabic
world in Egypt from, I think, 2008 to a
certain time period, right? And right
after the
the protests and riots in Egypt took
place,
and he took a certain position,
he's nowhere to be seen now.
And the same thing applies with the
Salafi movement in Egypt.
Sometimes when you take certain
political decisions,
it destroys your dawah. And what I worry
about with American da'ees, I'll be
completely honest, is that they they
might actually fall into Learn from the
lessons of recent history. They may be
like that as well.
Where you do something which is to the
lay audience is so clearly selling out,
quite frankly, right? I'm not saying
they're doing that. But, if you go in
that direction,
But, if it seems like that, eventually
the reality is going to happen.
to happen is people are going to say,
well, to be honest, we were following
you because you followed Islam. Now, we
can see even that you're not following
Islam, therefore we're not going to
follow you anymore. And it's as simple
as that. Your dawah will become
completely bankrupt. It will break from
from within. It will be a thing of the
past. Just like the Egyptian example. On
the other side, though, you have these
other groups of ultra-conservative
Another Another Another extreme. And
they're realizing their vision is not
working either, quite frankly. Wallahi,
wallahi, that's so true. It's There's a
disconnect between that and the reality.
This is This ain't working, and that
ain't working either because
Hold on. You were You were making
refutations of people. You were making
refutations of people, yeah?
And now you've got you're making
refutations of them because of their
stances of speaking against the rulers.
But now you're hosting them on your
program.
I'm I'm really sorry. This is hypocrisy.
And now And now No, you were labeling
them Ikhwani before. Now you you've got
them sitting next to you, speaking to
them because an enemy of the enemy is my
friend. So, it's maslaha. So, you're
using maslaha. But wait a minute, you
never used maslaha before.
So, why is Why is maslaha now in part of
your
your jurisprudential tools? You would
never be sitting with seated with
individual if you didn't have a common
enemy.
So, the the point is that's not working
and that's not going to work. There's
something in the middle and that's where
you need to have a robust understanding
of Islam, not just the ahkam, but the
usul.
When you have the understanding of the
ahkam,
then you don't fall into a maslaha
maslaha muqaddamah
muqaddamah ala al-nass. Or this Tufi
There's a guy called Najmuddin al-Tufi
who was a
who who said that al-maslaha is
muqaddamah ala al-nass. It comes before
the text.
And And this was refuted by almost I've
I've I've written something on this, by
the way. Something on my website.
I've written a an essay on this. It was
also something which was marked in
But the idea of al-maslaha muqaddamah
ala al-nass No, hold on.
No, no, no, I'm just saying cuz
I've got something PEOPLE CAN READ.
MUQADDAMAH ALA AL-NASS, YEAH, RIGHT?
THAT'S ON ONE SIDE. SORRY, that's what
you're doing because the nass says
you're not allowed to do it to to
support certain things and you're
supporting it. That's maslaha muqaddamah
ala al-nass. You're using al-Tufi's
notion, right? Oh, that's what it is.
And on the other side, you have these
people who are saying, "Well, maslaha
mursala doesn't maybe not even exist.
Maybe they don't even know how to
conceptualize maslaha mursala."
So, but but the truth is there is such a
thing as maslaha the and they have this
weird understanding of taqiyya. And that
that blocks everything for them. It
stops them from being able to cooperate
with anybody, right? So, these people
here
So, so let me just acknowledge
Let me add something
Let me tell you something. A scholar can
can be ignorant.
And this is called a jahl murakkab.
Compounded ignorance because when you
actually think you're right,
you think you're right, but you're wrong
because you've made the wrong kind of
judgment. So, the idea is don't go into
this side and don't go into this side.
We're saying there's a middle path. And
the middle path is I have to answer my
mom's phone. One second. You're not
answering your mother's phone. I'm so
sorry cuz it's she called too many
times.
Maybe this is okay, brothers and
sisters. If your mom calls, answer.
There's a point on Sorry, I can't I'm so
sorry.
She was calling so This side ain't
working because this side you're you're
embarrassing yourself. You're going to
embarrass yourself
praising someone like Linda Sarsour
because you
don't want to confront her because she's
a bit too
forceful for you.
I think that she's forceful on them.
They don't want to confront her. But on
the other side, that's the American
dies. They need to start challenging
But on the other side, on the other
side, you have these people that are
challenging everybody and and and and
they're not not making friends with
anyone. We're saying there's a middle
path, which is don't fall into
nahy an al-munkar fa'alu, which is the
Quran. You don't do any
ya'ni nahy an al-munkar. But at the same
time, No, no, no, we're not we're not
trying to cancel people. We're just
trying to advise them as our loving
brothers that we want the best for them.
It's also important to add because
obviously you guys specifically
highlighted those from the Salafi
persuasion, but let's not let's not get
twisted, my dear brothers, yeah? There
are also those who come from an Ash'ari,
Maturidi, Tasawwufi background that use
this guise of obeying rulers, not
adopting, you know, leftist
ideology, but they hide behind this garb
of traditionalism while supporting,
backing, and bootlicking tyrants, yeah?
So, we are again reiterating that
neither of the camps is an ideal thing
to be, you know, subscribing to. Do you
understand? Because I know right now
it's a very polarized arena, especially
online. It's either, you know, the kind
of left-leaning progressive woke imams,
etc., etc., who produce or is assumed
that they produce the likes of Linda
Sarsour. And on the other spectrum, you
have or they enable it, yeah? Or on the
other side, you have the
traditionalists. And they could be Sufi
or Salafi. But they too also have some
issues there as well. And it's more
apparent in the Muslim world, but we see
elements here in terms of
accepting certain laws, accepting
certain oppressive laws towards Muslims
and people of color in the West. What
we're saying here there needs to be a
balance and there needs to be a middle
ground.
I don't think any of three of us here
and and many people that will be
watching that we subscribe to either.
We're saying that there are there is
validity involved and there is clear
problems involved. But today obviously
we're addressing the the Sarsour issue
and and and that and that Mexican
immigration protest because the the
rotten fruits were undeniably apparent
in those instances.
Yeah, I think it was productive podcast,
man.
We're coming from a place where we want
to say to people that we're all
brothers,
but because we love you, whoever you may
be that's watching this podcast, because
we love you as brothers and sisters,
we thought it'd be
productive to have this discussion with
you, not with the intent of trying to
harm you or to detract from your
personal from your personality or from
your status,
but actually to bring you closer to
maybe a aqrab
like the Quran says, you know, aqrab min
hadha rushda. Yeah, sorry, aqrab min
hadha rushda. Isn't that what it is?
How's that again?
So, this podcast was not intended to try
and harm anybody or to try and do tafsiq
or tabdi' or takfir or to cancel
anybody, but instead it was just
productive advice and discussions about
strategies. And quite frankly,
these strategies that are being employed
in terms of activism need to be revised.
It's good that we've tried certain
things, but we know now, I think quite
clearly, what does not work.
It doesn't work to be completely
quietist and not cooperative, and it
does not work either
to be because those individuals who are
quietist are now cooperating, all right?
And we're seeing the untenability of
that position.
And on the other side, it doesn't make
sense to be completely blurring of the
lines and let's make allegiances with
anyone and all those things because
we're seeing, as you've mentioned, the
rotten fruits of that as well. And the
And the And the truth I think is
somewhere in the middle, even though
that's usually a fallacy, but I think in
this case, it's reality.
But until next time,
Oh, you want to have a last word?
I'm just going to conclude on the
statement of the very well-known
statement of
where he said, you know, we were the
most humiliated people and Allah honored
us through Islam. You know, if we seek
honor other than Islam, we'll be
humiliated again. Wallahi, this doesn't
this encapsulates the entire issue here.
You We as an ummah, whether in the West
or in the Muslim world, as a community,
you know, micro, macro, whatever you
want to talk it, the more we water down
and compromise our din of Islam. You
know, the clear issues. Yes. The clear
issues. Not the gray issues. The clear
issues. Once we start compromising on
this, there's going to be nothing left
for us in this life or the hereafter.
And this is a very very scary
afterthought which we hope that
listeners and viewers
Exactly. And that like I was going to
say the same thing as well. And wallahi,
that that's what it seems It just seems
like the brothers and sisters in America
do what
With all due respect, wallahi, it's just
we need to go a bit of a bit of a
backbone, you know? We've had scenarios
where, you know, like I said, even
shaking hands. Something so you can call
it minor, but we refuse to even give
that because we know once they take a
finger, then it's going to be an arm and
they're going to they're just going to
want you. So, brothers and sisters, if
you're watching this in America, please
study your religion. Wallahi, you don't
study your religion. When you're hit
with these things, you're just all over
the place. You know, wallahi, I I was
speaking to a guy who goes, "Oh, I've
got doubts about Islam." I said, "Okay,
we're studying philosophy." I said, "How
long have you been studying that?"
"Three years." I said, "How long have
you been studying Islam?" "Oh, not
really." Okay, how do you
If you're not going to be a murtad,
who's going to be a murtad?
No, no, no, if if you're not going to be
a murtad, you who's going to be a
murtad? You're studying three years
philosophy. You don't
You
You know You know wallahi, it's this is
really annoying me because what we see
is people pleases, akhi. You know, we
see people the du'at in America and
they're just trying to please the
people. And like you said, wallahi,
success is from Allah. If you think
you're going to join forces with LGBTQ,
all of them put together, wallahi, you
don't think success is in your hand. And
in the
in Surah Tawbah, Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala
talks about that.
The Battle of
They were the biggest army.
In Surah Tawbah, Hunayn. In the Battle
of Hunayn, Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala
wallahi, this this is amazing. The
Battle of Badr and the Battle of Hunayn.
In the Battle of Badr, they were 300 and
something in number against an army of
1,000. In the Battle of Hunayn, and I
think in the tafsir, it talks about Abu
Bakr and said that today no army can
defeat us, yeah? And Allah says you turn
back on your heels, yeah? Brothers and
sisters, you know what that shows you?
It shows you success is not in numbers.
Success is not how many people we know.
Oh, if we come and join forces with this
guy and that guy, Allah If Allah's going
to humiliate you, you're going to be
humiliated in a big number. That's
what's going to happen. So, please have
a backbone and inshallah study your
religion, inshallah, and success comes
from Allah. Wallahi, put this and drove
this in your head. And look the rights
of Allah Subhana Wa Ta'ala. Wallahi,
I'll I'll emphasize on this. The thing
that disturbed me most about that thing
was the brothers and sisters getting a
cross on their head or something along
those lines. Wallahi, it was
unbelievable. Yani, I'm I'm wallahi, I'm
so sorry. There's a priest there and I'm
I know I'm going to run. I'm so sorry,
wallahi, we have to emphasize on There's
a priest there wallahi coming saying,
"Come, you're next. We're going to do a
cross."
Can you imagine? And you're there
thinking, "Oh, you know how embarrassing
it'd be if I said no." Who cares? Akhi,
wallahi, who cares? Wallahi, please,
inshallah, learn the rights of Allah
Subhana Wa Ta'ala and put it first,
inshallah. Um Till next time guys we
finish up the podcast. That's it.
As-salamu alaykum wa rahmatullahi wa
barakatuh. As-salamu alaykum.